The One Where Monica Gets a New Roommate (The Pilot)

1.01 Pilot

Rachel leaves Barry at the alter and moves in with Monica. 
Monica goes on a date with Paul the wine guy, who turns out to be less than sincere. 
Ross is depressed about his failed marriage. 
Joey compares women to ice cream. 
Everyone watches Spanish soaps. 
Ross reveals his high school crush on Rachel.

[Scene: Central Perk, Chandler, Joey, Phoebe, and Monica are there.]

Monica: There's nothing to tell! He's just some guy I work with!

Joey: Come on, you're going out with the guy! There's gotta be something wrong with him!

Chandler: So does he have a hump? A hump and a hairpiece?

Phoebe: Wait, does he eat chalk?

(They all stare, bemused.)

Phoebe: Just 'cause I don't want her to go through what I went through with Carl. Oh.

Monica: Okay, everybody relax. This is not even a date. It's just two people going out to dinner and not having sex.

Chandler: Sounds like a date to me.

(Time Lapse)

Chandler: Alright, so I'm back in high school, I'm standing in the middle of the cafeteria, and I realize I am totally naked.

All: Oh, yeah. Had that dream.

Chandler: Then I look down, and I realize there's a phone... there.

Joey: Instead of...?

Chandler: That's right.

Joey: Never had that dream.

Phoebe: No.

Chandler: All of a sudden, the phone starts to ring，and it turns out it's my mother, which is very very weird, because she never calls me! 

(Time Lapse, Ross has entered.)

Ross: (mortified) Hi.

mortified
[eg:The teacher was mortified by his own inability to answer such a simple question]

Joey: This guy says hello, I wanna kill myself.

Monica: Are you okay, sweetie?

Ross: I just feel like someone reached down my throat, grabbed my small **intestine**, pulled it out of my mouth and tied it around my neck...

Chandler: Cookie?

Monica: (explaining to the others) Carol moved her stuff out today. 

Joey: Ohh.

Monica: (to Ross) Let me get you some coffee.

Ross: Thanks.

Phoebe: Ooh! Oh! (She starts to pluck at the air just in front of Ross.)
[pluck at：To remove abruptly or forcibly]

Ross: No, no don't! Stop cleansing my aura! No, just leave my aura alone, okay? I'll be fine, alright? Really, everyone. I hope she'll be very happy.
aura：a distinctive atmosphere surrounding a given source
[eg: the place had an aura of mystery]

Monica: No you don't.

Ross: No I don't, to hell with her, she left me!

Joey: And you never knew she was a lesbian...

Ross: No!! Okay?! Why does everyone keep fixating on that? She didn't know, how should I know?
fixate on v.to focus one’s gaze or attention on sth

Chandler: Sometimes I wish I was a lesbian... (They all stare at him.) Did I say that out loud?

Joey: Alright Ross, look. You're feeling a lot of pain right now. You're angry. You're hurting. Can I tell you what the answer is?

(Ross gestures his consent.)

Joey: Strip joint! C'mon, you're single! Have some hormones. 

Strip joint: A nightclub or other establishment where striptease is performed.

Ross: I don't want to be single, okay? I just... I just- I just wanna be married again!

(Rachel enters in a wet wedding dress and starts to search the room.)

Chandler: And I just want a million dollars! (He extends his hand hopefully.)

Monica: Rachel?!

Rachel: Oh God Monica hi! Thank God! I just went to your building and you weren't there and then this guy with a big hammer said you might be here and you are, you are!

Waitress: Can I get you some coffee?

Monica: (pointing at Rachel) De-caff. (to All) Okay, everybody, this is Rachel, another Lincoln High survivor. (to Rachel) This is everybody, this is Chandler, and Phoebe, and Joey, and- you remember my brother Ross? 

Rachel: Sure!

Ross: Hi. 

(They go to hug but Ross's umbrella opens. He sits back down defeated again.A moment of silence follows as Rachel sits and the others expect her to explain.)

Monica: So you wanna tell us now, or are we waiting for four wet bridesmaids?

Rachel: Oh God... well, it started about a half hour before the wedding. I was in this room where we were keeping all the presents, and I was looking at this gravy boat. This really gorgeous Limoges gravy boat. When all of a sudden- (to the waitress that brought her coffee)Sweet 'n Low?- I realized that I was more turned on by this gravy boat than by Barry! And then I got really freaked out, and that's when it hit me: how much Barry looks like Mr. Potato Head. Y'know, I mean, I always knew looked familiar, but... Anyway, I just had to get out of there, and I started wondering 'Why am I doing this, and who am I doing this for?'. (to Monica) So anyway I just didn't know where to go, and I know that you and I have kinda drifted apart, but you're the only person I knew who lived here in the city.

Gravy boat:  An elongated(adj.伸长的), boat-shaped pitcher used to serve gravy. A gravy boat usually sits on a matching plate, which is used to catch gravy drips. Sometimes the plate is permanently attached to the pitcher
 
Limoges is a city and commune in France, the préfecture of the Haute-Vienne département, and the administrative capital of the Limousin région. Population city: 137,502 (limougeauds), urban area: 247,944.Limoges is known worldwide for its medieval(adj.中世纪的) enamels(n.搪瓷 珐琅) (Limoges enamels) on copper(n.铜), for its 19th century porcelain(n.瓷器) (Limoges porcelain) and for its oak barrels (Limousin oak), which are used for Cognac(n.白兰地酒的一种) production.

Sweet'N Low is a popular brand of artificial sweetener(n.人造甜味剂) made from granulated(adj.颗粒状的) Saccharin(n.糖精), dextrose(n.葡萄糖) and cream of tartar(n.酒石), it was invented and first introduced in 1957 by Benjamin Eisenstadt and his son, Marvin Eisenstadt. The elder Eisenstadt had earlier invented the sugar packet, but neglected to patent it, and artificial sweetener packets were an outgrowth(n.副产品) of that business. The two were the first to market and distribute the sugar substitute in powdered form. Their distribution company, Cumberland Packing Corporation, still controls the product. The name "Sweet'N Low" itself derives from an 1863 song by Joseph Barnby, which took both its title and lyrics from an Alfred Lord Tennyson poem, entitled The Princess: Sweet and Low. From the 1950s to the 1980s, Sweet'N Low held a virtual(adj.实际的) monopoly of the artificial sweetener market. Currently, according to Rich Cohen's book Sweet and Low, it holds the #3 position in said market, behind Equal sweetener and Splenda. 低脂糖

Mr. Potato Head is a popular children's doll, consisting of a plastic model of a potato. Originally, the potato is blank(adj.没有表情的); however, it can be decorated with numerous attachable plastic parts to make a face, including a mustache, hat, nose and other features/瑞秋和众人谈到了她逃婚的原因，她说这是因为她突然发现她的未婚夫巴里医生长得活像“薯头先生(Mr．Potato Head)”，这是在美国家喻户晓的卡通人物。如果大家看过《玩具总动员(Toy Story)》，就会在里面发现他和他的夫人“薯头太太(Mrs．Potato Head)”叽叽歪歪，经常批评这、批评那的形象。尽管“薯头先生”很可爱，但卡通毕竟是卡通，如果你在乎未婚夫的容貌，而未婚夫又不幸长得和“薯头先生”一副嘴脸，你最好还是和瑞秋一样赶紧逃婚。

Monica: Who wasn't invited to the wedding.

Rachel: Ooh, I was kinda hoping that wouldn't be an issue.

[Scene: Monica's Apartment, everyone is there and watching a Spanish Soap on TV and are trying to figure out what is going on.]

Monica: Now I'm guessing that he bought her the big pipe organ, and she's really not happy about it. 

Rachel: (on phone) Daddy, I just... I can't marry him! I'm sorry. I just don't love him. Well, it matters to me! 

(The scene on TV has changed to show two women, one is holding her hair.)

Chandler: Ooh, she should not be wearing those pants. 

Joey: I say push her down the stairs. 

Phoebe, Ross, Chandler, and Joey:  Push her down the stairs! Push her down the stairs! Push her down the stairs!

(She is pushed down the stairs and everyone cheers.)

Rachel: C'mon Daddy, listen to me! It's like, it's like, all of my life, everyone has always told me, 'You're a shoe! You're a shoe, you're a shoe, you're a shoe!'. And today I just stopped and I said, 'What if I don't wanna be a shoe? What if I wanna be a purse, y'know? Or a hat! No, I'm not saying I want you to buy me a hat, I'm saying I am a ha- It's a metaphor, Daddy!

metaphor n.analogy

Ross: You can see where he'd have trouble.

You can see where he'd have trouble: Apparently, we can tell that Rach's dad made fun of Rach's metaphor by saying "buy her a hat", and pretended that he didn't know what Rach was talking about. But what's even worse is that Rach didn't get her dad's little trick either.So she yelled at the phone that "It's a metaphor,Daddy!". Once she realized how rude and unladily she was just now, her eyes met with Ross's, which made Ross rather embarrassing. So he ended up saying that "You can see where he'd have trouble." That means "you can see misunderstanding your metaphor is where he'd have trouble to communicate with you smoothly. 

Rachel: Look Daddy, it's my life. Well maybe I'll just stay here with Monica. 

Monica: Well, I guess we've established who's staying here with Monica...

Well, I guess we've established who's staying here with Monica：Monica has no idea why Rachel said that. But she can't just abandon Rach at this critical time, so when her friends turned to her for a verification, she can't think of nothing to say except that: "Well, it seems to Rachel that I have already agreed on the whole moving in thing( that is established an agreement on her moving in), although I have nothing to do with it!!(Don't look at me in this weird way, guys!)"

Rachel: Well, maybe that's my decision. Well, maybe I don't need your money. Wait!! Wait, I said maybe!!

(Time Lapse, Rachel is breathing into a paper bag.)

Monica: Just breathe, breathe.. that's it. Just try to think of nice calm things... 

Phoebe: (sings) Raindrops on roses and rabbits and kittens, (Rachel and Monica turn to look at her.) bluebells and sleighbells and- something with mittens... La la la la...something and noodles with string.  These are a few...
raindrop n.雨滴/kitten n.小猫/bluebell n.野风信子/sleighbell n.雪橇/mitten n.棒球手套/"My Favorite Things" is a song from the musical The Sound of Music. The music for "My Favorite Things" was composed by Richard Rodgers, and the lyrics were written by Oscar Hammerstein II. In the musical, the lyrics to the song are a litany(n.冗长而枯燥的事) of things that Maria loves, such as "raindrops on roses and whiskers on kittens, bright copper kettles and warm woolen mittens." These are the things she selects to fill her mind with when times get bad and sad.The wintertime imagery(n.比喻) of some of the lyrics has made "My Favorite Things" a popular song during the Christmas season, and it often appears on holiday-themed albums and compilations, although in the show and movie it is sung during a summer thunderstorm.

Rachel: I'm all better now.

Phoebe: (grins and walks to the kitchen and says to Chandler and Joey.) I helped!

Monica: Okay, look, this is probably for the best, y'know? Independence. Taking control of your life.
be for the best 是一个极其口语化的表达法，表示某件事情可能并不像看上去那么糟，也颇有点良药虽苦，其利于病的意思，比如：I know it's hard for you to leave him, but it's for the best.
Joey: (comforting her) And hey, you need anything, you can always come to Joey. Me and Chandler live across the hall. And he's away a lot.
Monica: Joey, stop hitting on her! It's her wedding day!
hit on <俚>to pay unsolicited(adj.主动提供的) and usually unwanted(adj.不必要的) sexual attention to(=flirt with someone/ to make a pass at someone/ to come on to someone)

Joey: What, like there's a rule or something?

(The door buzzer sounds and Chandler gets it.)
buzzer n.蜂鸣器

Chandler: Please don't do that again, it's a horrible sound.

Paul: (over the intercom) It's, uh, it's Paul.
intercom n.communication system linking different rooms

Monica: Buzz him in!
buzz him in v.make a signal using the buzzer to let him in

Joey: Who's Paul?

Ross: Paul the Wine Guy, Paul?

Monica: Maybe. 

Joey: Wait a minute. Your "not a real date" is with Paul, the wine guy?

Ross: He finally asked you out?

Monica: Yes!

Chandler: Ooh, this is a Dear Diary moment.
a Dear Diary moment: when Americans keep the diary(n.日记), normally, the first words they write down must be “Dear Diary”, apparently, Chandler mocks Monica that she is so attracted to Paul with his stereotyped(adj.成年老调的) Chandler sarcastic tone. 

Monica: Rach, wait, I can cancel...

Rachel: Please, no, go, that'd be fine!

Monica: (to Ross) Are, are you okay? I mean, do you want me to stay?

Ross: (choked voice) That'd be good...
choke v.阻塞

Monica: (horrified) Really?

Ross: (normal voice) No, go on! It's Paul the Wine Guy!
(There's a knock on the door and it's Paul.)

Monica: Hi, come in! Paul, this is.. (They are all lined up next to the door.)... everybody, everybody, this is Paul.

All: Hey! Paul! Hi! The Wine Guy! Hey!

Chandler: I'm sorry, I didn't catch your name. Paul, was it?
catch v.perceive by hearing

Monica: Change!  Okay, sit down. (Shows Paul in) Two seconds.

Phoebe: Ooh, I just pulled out four eyelashes. That can't be good.
eyelashes n.The fringe of hair edging the eyelid(n.眼睑).Usually used in plural(adj.复数的) 睫毛

(Monica goes to change.)

Ross: So Rachel, what're you, uh... what're you up to tonight?
be up to v. Busy or occupied with

Rachel: Well, I was kinda supposed to be headed for Aruba on my honeymoon, so nothing!
Aruba is 32 kilometre long island of the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean Sea, 27 km north of the Paraguaná Peninsula, Falcón State, Venezuela(n.委内瑞拉). It is in the Realm of Kingdom of the Netherlands, which consists of a European part (The Netherlands) and a Caribbean-American part (Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles). Unlike much of the Caribbean-American region, Aruba has a dry climate and an arid(adj.干旱的), cactus-strewn(adj.仙人掌散布的) landscape. This climate has helped tourism as visitors to the island can reliably expect warm sunny weather. It has a land area of 193 km (75 sq mi) and lies outside the hurricane belt(n.热带气旋地带)

Ross: Right, you're not even getting your honeymoon, God.. No, no, although, Aruba, this time of year... talk about your(thinks) big lizards... Anyway, if you don't feel like being alone tonight, Joey and Chandler are coming over to help me put together my new furniture.
lizard n.蜥蜴/put together v.装配

Chandler: (deadpan) Yes, and we're very excited about it. 
deadpan n.a completely expressionless face 

Rachel: Well actually thanks, but I think I'm just gonna hang out here tonight.It's been kinda a long day.
hang out here：呆在这儿。朋友之间相处，象FRIENDS他们一起喝咖啡，在MON家聊天之类的，都是hang out。

Ross: Okay, sure.

Joey: Hey Pheebs, you wanna help?

Phoebe: Oh, I wish I could, but I don't want to.

Commercial Break

[Scene: Ross's Apartment, the guys are there assembling furniture.]

Ross: (squatting and reading the instructions) I'm supposed to attach a brackety thing to the side things, using a bunch of these little worm guys. I have no brackety thing, I see no whom guys whatsoever and I cannot feel my legs.
squat v.蹲坐/bracket n.支架/brackety：means an L-shaped support projecting(adj.突出的) from a wall (as to hold a shelf)/side: means an extended outer surface of an object/worm n. screw thread(n.螺纹) on a gear with(v.一致) the teeth of a worm wheel(n.蜗轮) or rack(n.架) 蜗杆/whatsoever =whatever(语气比whatever强)/I cannot feel my legs腿麻掉了

(Joey and Chandler are finishing assembling the bookcase.)

Joey: (picking up a leftover part) What's this?

Chandler: I have no idea.

(Joey checks that Ross is not looking and dumps it in a plant.)

Joey: Done with the bookcase!

Chandler: All finished!

Ross: (clutching a beer can and sniffing) This was Carol's favorite beer. She always drank it out of the can, I should have known.
clutch v.抓住/sniff v.用力吸气/out of the can adv.(罐头)指一直用杯子来喝

Joey: Ross, let me ask you a question. She got the furniture, the stereo, the good TV, what did you get?
stereo n. 音响

Ross: You guys.

Chandler: Oh, God.

Joey: You got screwed.
got screwed<俚>to cheat or deceive someone

Chandler: Oh my God!

[Scene: A Restaurant, Monica and Paul are eating.]

Monica: Oh my God!

Paul: I know, I know, I'm such an idiot. I guess I should have caught on when she started going to the dentist four and five times a week. I mean, how clean can teeth get?
catch on v. Understand clearly;comprehend 理解/Catch on to the fact is also a useful alternative phase you can apply to

Monica: My brother's going through that right now, he's such a mess. How did you get through it?
mess<俚>informal terms for a difficult situation

Paul: Well, you might try accidentally breaking something valuable of hers, say her…

Monica: leg?

Paul: (laughing) That's one way! Me, I went for the watch.
went for v.攻击

Monica: You actually broke her watch? 

[Scene: Monica's Apartment, Rachel is talking on the phone and pacing.]

Rachel: Barry, I'm sorry... I am so sorry... I know you probably think that this is all about what I said the other day about you making love with your socks on, but it isn't... it isn't, it's about me, and I ju- (She stops talking and dials the phone.) Hi, machine cut me off again... anyway..
cut off  v.disconnect;terminate;and shut off/the other day adv.前几天

[Scene: Ross's Apartment; Ross is pacing while Joey and Chandler are working on some more furniture.]

Ross: You know what the scariest part is? What if there's only one woman for everybody, y'know? I mean what if you get one woman- and that's it? Unfortunately in my case, there was only one woman- for her...

Joey: What are you talking about? 'One woman'? That's like saying there's only one flavor of ice cream for you. Lemme tell you something, Ross. There's lots of flavors out there. There's Rocky Road, and Cookie Dough, and Bing! Cherry Vanilla. You could get 'em with Jimmies, or nuts, or whipped cream! This is the best thing that ever happened to you! You got married, you were like, what, eight? Welcome back to the world! Grab a spoon!
flavor n.口味/lemme<口>let me/nut n.坚果/whipped cream n.生奶油

Rocky road ice cream is a chocolate flavor, recently ranked tenth in popularity in the United States. Though there are variations on the flavor, it is traditionally composed of chocolate ice cream, nuts and marshmallows(n.棉花糖). The flavor is claimed to have been created in 1929 by William Dreyer when he cut up walnuts(n.胡桃) and marshmallows with his wife's sewing scissors and added them to his chocolate ice cream during the Great Depression. The company claims it was then so named "to give folks something to smile about in the midst of the Great Depression." Another host says the flavors were created by a Milton Ainbinder, while owning an ice cream toppings factory. Alternately, Fenton's Creamery in Oakland, California, claims that William Dreyer based his recipe on a Rocky Road ice cream invented by his friend, Fenton's George Farren, who blended his Rocky Road candy bar into ice cream; however Dreyer substituted almonds(n.杏仁) for walnuts.

Cookie dough refers to a blend of cookie ingredients which has been mixed into a solid yet malleable(adj.有延展性的) form but has not yet been hardened by heat. The dough is often then separated and the portions baked to individual cookies, or eaten as is.Cookie dough can be or bought pre-made in packs. Desserts containing cookie dough, such as ice cream, are also frequently marketed. It is also commonly sold as a fundraiser(n.资金筹集活动)

cherry vanilla n.樱桃香草

jimmies:small particles of chocolate or flavored candy sprinkled on ice cream as a topping.

Ross: I honestly don't know if I'm hungry or horny.
horny <俚> feeling great sexual desire

Chandler: Stay out of my freezer! 
freezer n.冰箱

[Scene: A Restaurant, Monica and Paul are still eating.]

Paul: Ever since she walked out on me, I uh...
walk out on v.abandon;run out on 遗弃 抛弃[eg:He just walked out on his wife and family without saying a word]

Monica: What?..... What, you wanna spell it out with noodles?
spell out v.make explicit 讲清楚 清楚地说明

Paul: No, it's more of a fifth date kinda revelation.
revelation n.揭示 告白

Monica: Oh, so there is gonna be a fifth date?

Paul: Isn't there?

Monica: Yeah... yeah, I think there is. What were you gonna say?
What were you gonna say你刚才想说什么

Paul: Well, ever... ever since she left me, um, I haven't been able to perform. (Monica takes a sip of her drink.) ...sexually. 

Monica: (spitting out her drink in shock) Oh God, oh God, I am sorry... I am so sorry...
spit out v.吐出

Paul: It's okay...

Monica: I know being spit on is probably not what you need right now. Um... how long?

Paul: Two years.

Monica: Wow! I'm glad you smashed her watch! 

Paul: So you still think you ... might want that fifth date?

Monica: (pause)...Yeah. Yeah, I do.

[Scene: Monica's Apartment, Rachel is watching Joanie Loves Chachi.]

Joanie on TV： I, Joanie take you, Chachi, as my lawful husband.

Priest on TV: Do you take Joanie...

Rachel: Oh...see... but Joanie loved Chachi! That's the difference!
Oh...see... but Joanne loved Chachi! That's the difference! ：What Rachel said is funny is because Rachel here was sarcastic about her running away from altar.She was deeply moved by the true love between Joanne and Chachi which leads to a successful holy matrimony,while she and Barry had almost everything but love and that results in her disappointment in their matrimony.So she felt right to have escaped from a doomed marrige with a person she would never love. 

[Scene: Ross's Apartment, they're all sitting around and talking.]

Ross: (scornful) Grab a spoon. Do you know how long it's been since I've grabbed a spoon? Do the words 'Billy, don't be a hero' mean anything to you? 
Billy don't be a hero 这是一首著名的７０年代反战歌曲，描写的是越战中，一个女孩希望自己的fiance Billy平安归来，don't be a hero in the war,但最后Billy还是在战争中失去了他年青的生命．歌中有一句词说：“(Billy，don't be a hero)”。回来，让我成为你的妻子。在剧中，乔伊劝告罗斯忘记前妻卡罗尔，再找新的女友，罗斯非常不满，他反问乔伊：那“比利，不要成为一个英雄”这个故事对你有何启发?这里罗斯把找新女友比喻成上战场 /Billy, don’t be a hero: A hit by Bo Donaldson and the Heywoods in 1974, written about a young man named Billy who headed to Vietnam War and had to leave his lovely fiancée(n.<法>未婚妻). Here, I assume, Ross likens it to(与……相比) his tragic love affair in a sappy(adj.易动感情的) manner, you know, his wife is a lesbian

Ross: Y'know, here's the thing. Even if I could get it together enough to ask a woman out,... who am I gonna ask? (He gazes out of the window.)
gaze out v.向外注视/get it together<俚>succeed in controlling your feelings

(Cut to Rachel staring out of her window.)

Commercial Break

[Scene: Monica's Apartment, Rachel is making coffee for Joey and Chandler.]

Rachel: Isn't this amazing? I mean, I have never made coffee before in my entire life.

Chandler: That is amazing.

Joey: Congratulations. While you're on a roll, if you feel like you gotta make like a western omelet or something... (Joey and Chandler taste the coffee, grimace, and pour it into a plant pot.) Although actually I'm really not that hungry...
on a roll<俚>undergoing or experiencing sustained, even increasing good fortune or success/omelet n.煎蛋卷/grimace vi.作苦相/plant pot花盆/
western omelet 

All: Morning. Good morning.

Paul: (entering from Monica's room) Morning.

Joey: Morning, Paul.

Rachel: Hello, Paul.

Chandler: Hi, Paul, is it?

Monica: I had a really great time last night.

(Monica and Paul walk to the door and talk in a low voice so the others can't hear. The others move Monica's table closer to the door so that they can.)

Paul: Thank you!  Thank you so much!

Monica: We'll talk later.

Paul: Yeah. (They kiss) Thank you. (Exits)

Joey: That wasn't a real date?! What the hell do you do on a real date?

Monica: Shut up, and put my table back.

All: Okayyy! (They do so.)

Chandler: All right, kids, I gotta get to work. If I don't input those numbers,... it doesn't make much of a difference... 

Rachel: So, like, you guys all have jobs?

Monica: Yeah, we all have jobs. See, that's how we buy stuff.

Joey: Yeah, I'm an actor.

Rachel: Wow! Would I have seen you in anything?

Joey: I doubt it. Mostly regional work.

Monica: Oh wait, wait, unless you happened to catch the reruns' production of Pinocchio.
rerun n.重播/Pinocchio和Geppetto 从小耳熟能详的《木偶奇遇记》，英文就叫做Pinocchio，这也是“小木偶”的名字，而造出它的老木匠则叫做Geppetto。这里Chandler就是故意拿这句话讽刺Joey一个大男人，演的却是小木偶，可见他根本没什么演艺代表作品/The Adventures of Pinocchio is a novel for children by Italian author Carlo Collodi. The first half was originally a serial(n.连载小说) between 1881 and 1883, and then later completed as a book for children in February 1883. It is about the mischievous(adj.淘气的) adventures of Pinocchio, an animated marionette(n.牵线木偶), and his poor father, a woodcarver named Geppetto. It is considered a classic of children's literature and has spawned many derivative works of art, such as Disney's 1940 animated movie of the same name, and commonplace ideas, such as a liar's long nose.

Geppetto is the old carpenter who creates Pinocchio, when the wooden structure is done, the first words said by Pinocchio are “I’m a real live boy!”

Chandler: 'Look, Gippetto, I'm a real live boy.'

Joey: I will not take this abuse. (Walks to the door and opens it to leave.)
take abuse v.recoil(vi.畏缩) as to someone else’s language offense

Chandler: You're right, I'm sorry. (Burst into song and dances out of the door.) "Once I was a wooden boy, a little wooden boy..."

Monica: So how you doing today? Did you sleep okay? Talk to Barry? I can't stop smiling.

Rachel: I can see that. You look like you slept with a hanger in your mouth.
hanger n.衣架

Monica: I know, he's just so, so... Do you remember you and Tony DeMarco?

Rachel: Oh, yeah.

Monica: Well, it's like that. With feelings.

Rachel: Oh wow. Are you in trouble.

Monica: Okay. Okay. I am just going to get up, go to work and not think about him all day. Or else I'm just gonna get up and go to work.

Rachel: Oh, wish me luck!

Monica: What for? 

Rachel: I'm gonna go get one of those (Thinks) job things.

(Monica exits.)

[Scene: Iridium, Monica is working as Frannie enters.] 

Frannie: Hey, Monica! 

Monica: Hey Frannie, welcome back! How was Florida? 

Frannie: You had sex, didn't you? 

Monica: How do you do that?

Frannie: So? Who? 

Monica: You know Paul? 

Frannie: Oh yeah, I know Paul. 

Monica: You mean you know Paul like I know Paul? 

Frannie: Are you kidding? I take credit for Paul. Y'know before me, there was no snap in his turtle for two years. 
take credit for<俚>if A takes credit for B,that means B is indebted to(adj.感激的)/turle n.海龟/snap in his turtle<俚> sexual performance, it's kind of a "clean" way of saying a vulgar idea (also known as a euphemism). A man who has no snap in his turtle is impotent; or, unable to have an erection/turtle <俚>a vulgar expression to refer to male’s genitalia 

[Scene: Central Perk, everyone but Rachel is there.]

Joey: (sitting on the arm of the couch)Of course it was a line! 
line<俚> glib(adj.油腔滑调的) or insincere(adj.不真诚的) talk, usually intended to deceive or impress

Monica: Why?! Why? Why, why would anybody do something like that? 

Ross: I assume we're looking for an answer more sophisticated than 'to get you into bed'. 
sophisticated adj.成熟稳重的

Monica: Is it me? Is it like I have some sort of beacon that only dogs and men with severe emotional problems can hear? 
beacon n.灯塔 信标(电)台

Phoebe: All right, come here, gimme your feet. (She starts massaging them.) 

Monica: I just thought he was nice, y'know? 

Joey: (bursts out laughing again) I can't believe you didn't know it was a line! 

(Monica pushes him off of the sofa as Rachel enters with a shopping bag.) 

Rachel: Guess what? 

Ross: You got a job? 

Rachel: Are you kidding? I'm trained for nothing! I was laughed out of twelve interviews today. 

Chandler: And yet you're surprisingly upbeat. 
upbeat adj. cheerful;optimistic 

Rachel: You would be too if you found John and David boots on sale, fifty percent off! 

Chandler: Oh, how well you know me... 

Rachel: They're my new 'I don't need a job, I don't need my parents, I've got great boots' boots! 

Monica: How'd you pay for them? 

Rachel: Uh, credit card. 

Monica: And who pays for that? 

Rachel: Um... my... father. 

[Scene: Monica and Rachel's, everyone is sitting around the kitchen table.Rachel's credit cards are spread out on the table along with a pair of scissors.]

Monica: C'mon, you can't live off your parents your whole life. 

Rachel: I know that. That's why I was getting married. 

Phoebe: Give her a break, it's hard being on your own for the first time.

give her a break 饶了她吧/be on your own独立生活 

Rachel: Thank you. 

Phoebe: You're welcome. I remember when I first came to this city. I was fourteen. My mom had just killed herself and my step-dad was back in prison, and I got here, and I didn't know anybody. And I ended up living with this albino guy who was like cleaning windshields outside port authority, and then he killed himself, and then I found aromatherapy. So believe me, I know exactly how you feel. 
step-dad n.继父/albino n.白化病者/windshield n.挡风玻璃/port authority港务局/aromatherapy n. 芳香疗法(用天然物质萃取出的油脂 香料等治疗皮肤病的方法)/aroma n.芳香/end up<口>means finally be or do something

Ross: The word you're looking for is 'Anyway'... 

Monica: All right, you ready?

Rachel: I don't think so.

Ross: C'mon, cut. Cut, cut, cut,... 

All: Cut, cut, cut, cut, cut, cut, cut... (She finishes cutting them up and they all cheer.)

Monica: Welcome to the real world! It sucks. You're gonna love it! 

(Time Lapse, Rachel and Ross are watching a TV channel finishes it's broadcast day by playing the national anthem.)

Monica: Well, that's it (To Ross) You gonna crash on the couch? 
crash<俚> to temporarily stay over or sleep at a place other than at one's  own  usual  abode(n.住处),

Ross: No. No, I gotta go home some time. 

Monica: You be okay? 

Ross: Yeah. 

Rachel: Hey Mon, look what I just found on the floor. (Monica smiles.) What? 

Monica: That's Paul's watch. You just put it back where you found it. Oh boy. Alright. Goodnight, everybody. 

Ross & Rachel: Goodnight.

(Monica stomps on Paul's watch and goes into her room.)
stomp v.smash something by foot 

Ross: Mmm. (They both reach for the last cookie) Oh, no- 

Rachel: Sorry.

Ross: No no no, go.

Rachel: No, you have it, really, I don't want it.

Ross: Split it? 

Rachel: Okay. 

Ross: Okay. (They split it.) You know you probably didn't know this, but back in high school, I had a...major crush on you.
have a crush on sb<俚> have an intense and usually passing infatuation(n.醉心)[eg:If you are a crush on someone, you are in love with them but do not have a relationship with them]

Rachel: I knew. 

Ross: You did! Oh.... I always figured you just thought I was Monica's geeky older brother. 
geeky adj.<俚>书呆子气的 令人讨厌的

Rachel: I did. 

Ross: Oh. Listen, do you think- and try not to let my intense vulnerability become any kind of a factor here- but do you think it would be okay if I asked you out? Sometime? Maybe? 
vulnerability n.易受责难 弱点/intense vulnerablility n.强烈的脆弱感

Rachel: Yeah, maybe... 

Ross: Okay... okay, maybe I will... 

Rachel: Goodnight. 

Ross: Goodnight. 

(Rachel goes into her room and Monica enters the living room as Ross is leaving.) 

Monica: See ya.... Wait wait, what's with you? 

Ross: I just grabbed a spoon. (Ross exits and Monica has no idea what that means.) 

Closing Credits

[Scene: Central Perk, everyone is there.] 

Joey: I can't believe what I'm hearing here. 

Phoebe: (sings) I can't believe what I'm hearing here... 

Monica: What? I said you had a- 

Phoebe: (sings) What I said you had... 

Monica: (to Phoebe) Would you stop? 

Phoebe: Oh, was I doing it again?

All: Yes!
Rachel: (walks up with a pot of coffee) Would anybody like more coffee? 

Chandler: Did you make it, or are you just serving it? 

Rachel: I'm just serving it. 

All: Yeah. Yeah, I'll have a cup of coffee. 

Chandler: Kids, new dream... (Rachel sits down to hear Chandler's dream.) I'm in Las Vegas... I'm Liza Minelli...
Liza Minnelli (born March 12, 1946 in Los Angeles, California) American actress and singer. She is the daughter of legendary actress and singer Judy Garland and her second husband, film director Vincente Minnelli. In 1972, she won an Academy Award for Best Actress for her role in Cabaret. She used to be a duet(n.二重唱)-mate of Pavarotti

End
