### Lesson 59 Collecting

People tend to amass possessions, sometimes without being aware of doing so.

Indeed they can have a delightful surprise when they find something useful which they did not know they owned.

Those who never have to move house become indiscriminate collectors of what can only be described as clutter.

They leave unwanted objects in drawers, cupboards and attics for years, in the belief that they may one day need just those very things.

As they grow old, people also accumulate belongings for two other reasons, lack of physical and mental energy, both of which are essential in turning out and throwing away, and sentiment.

Things owned for a long time are full associations with the past, perhaps with relatives who are dead, and so they gradually acquire a value beyond their true worth.

---

Some things are collected deliberately in the home in an attempt to avoid waste.

Among these I would list string and brown paper, kept by thrifty people when a parcel has been opened, to save buying these two requisites.

Collecting small items can easily become a mania.

I know someone who always cuts sketches out from newspapers of model clothes that she would like to buy if she had the money.

As she is not rich, the chances that she will ever be able to afford such purchases are remote;

but she is never sufficiently strong-minded to be able to stop the practice.

It is a harmless habit, but it litters up her desk to such an extent that every time she opens it, loose bits of paper fall out in every direction.

---

Collecting as a serious hobby is quite different and has many advantages.

It provides relaxation for leisure hours, as just looking at one's treasures is always a joy.

One does not have to go outside for amusement, since the collection is housed at home.

Whatever it consists of, stamps, records, first editions of books, china, glass, antique furniture, pictures, model cars, stuffed birds, toy animals, there is always something to do in connection with it, from finding the right place for the latest addition, to verifying facts in reference books.

This hobby educates one not only in the chosen subject, but also in general matters which have some bearing on it.

There are also other benefits.

One wants to meet like-minded collectors, to get advice, to compare notes, to exchange articles, to show off the latest find.

So one's circle of friends grows.

Soon the hobby leads to travel, perhaps to a meeting in another town, possibly a trip abroad in search of a rare specimen, for collectors are not confined to any one country.

Over the years, one may well become an authority on one's hobby and will very probably be asked to give informal talks to little gatherings and then, if successful, to larger audiences.

In this way self-confidence grows, first from mastering a subject, then from being able to talk about it.

Collecting, by occupying spare time so constructively, makes a person contented, with no time for boredom.


---


### Lesson 60 Too early and too late

Punctuality is a necessary habit in all public affairs in civilized society.

Without it, nothing could ever be brought to a conclusion; everything would be in a state of chaos.

Only in a sparsely-populated rural community is it possible to disregard it.

In ordinary living, there can be some tolerance of unpunctuality.

The intellectual, who is working on some abstruse problem, has everything coordinated and organized for the matter in hand.

He is therefore forgiven if late for a dinner party.

But people are often reproached for unpunctuality when their only fault is cutting things fine.

It is hard for energetic, quick-minded people to waste time, so they are often tempted to finish a job before setting out to keep an appointment.

If no accidents occur on the way, like punctured tyres, diversions of traffic, sudden descent of fog, they will be on time.

They are often more industrious, useful citizens than those who are never late.

The over-punctual can be as much a trial to others as the unpunctual.

The guest who arrives half an hour too soon is the greatest nuisance.

Some friends of my family had this irritating habit.

The only thing to do was ask them to come half an hour later than the other guests.

Then they arrived just when we wanted them.

---

If you are catching a train, it is always better to be comfortably early than even a fraction of a minute too late.

Although being early may mean wasting a little time, this will be less than if you miss the train and have to wait an hour or more for the next one;

and you avoid the frustration of arriving at the very moment when the train is drawing out of the station and being unable to get on it.

An even harder situation is to be on the platform in good time for a train and still to see it go off without you.

Such an experience befell a certain young girl the first time she was travelling alone.

---

She entered the station twenty minutes before the train was due, since her parents had impressed upon her that it would be unforgivable to miss it and cause the friends with whom she was going to stay to make two journeys to meet her.

She gave her luggage to a porter and showed him her ticket.

To her horror he said that she was two hours too soon.

She felt in her handbag for the piece of paper on which her father had written down all the details of the journey and gave it to the porter.

He agreed that a train did come into the station at the time on the paper and that it did stop, but only to take on mail, not passengers.

The girl asked to see a timetable, feeling sure that her father could not have made such a mistake.

The porter went to fetch one and arrived back with the station master, who produced it with a flourish and pointed out a microscopic 'o' beside the time of the arrival of the train at his station; this little 'o' indicated that the train only stopped for mail.

Just as that moment the train came into the station.

The girl, tears streaming down her face, begged to be allowed to slip into the guard's van.

But the station master was adamant: rules could not be broken. 

And she had to watch that train disappear towards her destination while she was left behind.
